Though, I have used c++ for a long time as my primary programming tool, I am starting to be more comfortable and prefer dynamically typed languages such as Python and Javascript. Recently, I learned about the "new born" language from Google, which was said to beat anyone. Since this new language was similar to both c++ and python, I really wanted to take a look and see how it works. In this post, I will try to show the differences between c++ and golang and also, things that they share. Of course, I will not cover all detailed similarities or diffrences, this post will be more about code comparasion. Yes, I know, programming languages are not comparable between each other, each of them have its own purpose in this world, but my comparision is more about the style of the code and some features that languages provide to make programmer's life easier. So let's start. For comparasion of these two beatuful languages, I will use the known data structure. Data structure is Treap (or Cartesian Tree), which is my favorite. I like Treap mainly because of its simplicity and, at the same time, being powerful. So what is the Treap? Treap is the binary optimized binary search tree, which always tries to maintain its height close to log(N) (where N is the number of nodes in tree). Almost the same idea as any other binary search tree (e.g Red-Black Tree), but a way easier to understand and to write. When we need it? Suppose, you store a collection of number in an array, and user asks you to get the minimum number from some range and user keeps asking you the minumum number for different ranges and also keeps adding the new number to that array. If for each query of user, you will try to answer by iteration through the whole array, it may work too slow (In average O(N) time for each operation). So Treap comes to rescue here. Treap can do every operation of user approximately in O(log(N)) time, where N is the size of array. Just think about how fast it works. Let me give you an example, suppose I have an array of size 10^10 and you are a user who wants to get answers from server. I think, The trivial approach for this case will work in about 10 sec per operation, but with tray you only need to traverse log2(10^10)=34 nodes, which will be computed in miliseconds. So, I think you understand how important and useful Treap is. Let's take this example of getting the minumum as a problem to solve and write the code for this problem in both c++ and golang.

I took my old c++ solution code for above problem and translated into golang. Let's first write the main functions, where we simulate the process of quering the server. Here the c++ main function code Here the golang main function code
{% highlight cpp %}
int main (){
    srand( time(NULL) );
    item Array = NULL;
    
    int n;
    scanf ("%d" , &n);
    for (int i = 0 ; i < n ; i++)
    {
        char type;
        scanf(" %c ", &type);
        if (type == '+')
        {
            int ind , x;
            scanf("%d %d", &ind, &x);
            Insert (Array , ind , x);
        }

        else
        {
            int l , r;
            scanf("%d %d", &l, &r);
            
            -- l , -- r;       
            printf("%d\n", GetMin(Array, l, r));
        }
    }
    return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% highlight go %}
func main (){
    var Array *Treap = nil
    
    var n int    
    fmt.Scan(&n)
    
    for i := 0 ; i < n ; i ++ {
        var c string    
        fmt.Scan(&c)
        if c == "+" {
            var ind, x int 
            fmt.Scan(&ind, &x)
            Array = Insert(Array, ind, x)
            //fmt.Println("Ind, x = ",ind, x)
            
        } else {
            var l, r int
            fmt.Scan(&l, &r)
            l --
            r --
            fmt.Println(GetMin(Array, l, r))
        }   
    }    
}
{% endhighlight %}
